## Allstate-Insurance-Purchase-Prediction

#### This is a famous kaggle competition in 2014. In order to practice skills in big data analysis, I explore this competition with data visulization and model buiding. There are several challenges I encountered when I deal with this complex dataset First, in the dataset, there are 7 labels. Each of them has 2-4 values. There is a total of 2,034 combinations of these options, so it is difficult for us to predict the final plan correctly and accurately. If I build 7 separate model to predict each label, while accuracy for the prediction of each option can be up to 90%, accuracy for combination of all these 7 labels is only 47.82% (0.9^7). So, it is not wise and impossible to predict all labels by seperate machine learning models. Also, this dataset contains 665,249 rows, which is complete quote history and purchase record for 97,009 customers. 

#### Due to difficult problem I face, Naïve Approach: use last quotes as prediction of final purchase, is set as baseline to simplify original problem. New problem is that customers who don’t meet baseline should be recognized. Customers are categorized into 2 groups: stable and unstable customers. Stable customers meet baseline, which means their purchases are the same as last quotes. Unstable customers do not meet baseline, which means their purchase are different with last quotes. Algorithm will predict and classify customers into proper groups and then only baseline of unstable customers should be changed. Baseline improvement methods include states purchase preference, association rules and individually predicted option G. Conclusively, after using baseline, two problems I am facing are: 1. Change whose baselines, 2. How to change their baselines.


